>> WE'RE WAITING FOR THE SENATE
TO DO THEIR JOB.
>> Ifill: IN SEARCH OF
COMPROMISE, CONGRESS GETS DOWN
TO BRASS TACKS IN THE FUNDING
FIGHT OVER THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY.
WHEN DRESS CODES COLLIDE WITH
RELIGION.
A JOB APPLICANT WHO WEARS HEAD
SCARVES TAKES HER CASE TO THE
SUPREME COURT.
>> WE DO MORE THAN GIVE HOUSING,
WE GIVE A COMMUNITY TO YOUNG
MOTHERS.
>> Ifill: HOUSING BECOMES AN
ARTIST'S CANVAS, AND RESHAPES A
STRUGGLING HOUSTON NEIGHBORHOOD
INTO A VIBRANT COMMUNITY.
>> WHAT I BELIEVE IS ART AND
CREATIVITY HAS THE POTENTIAL TO
TRANSFORM THE LIVES OF
INDIVIDUAL AND THE LIVES OF A
COMMUNITY.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: F.B.I. AGENTS IN NEW
YORK ARRESTED TWO MEN TODAY WHO
THEY SAY WERE PLANNING TO JOIN
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES IN SYRIA.
ONE WAS STOPPED AT KENNEDY
AIRPORT, BEFORE HE COULD BOARD A
FLIGHT TO TURKEY.
THE OTHER WAS ARRESTED IN
BROOKLYN.
HE'D ALLEGEDLY SPOKEN OF TRYING
TO KILL THE PRESIDENT.
A THIRD MAN, IN JACKSONVILLE,
FLORIDA, IS CHARGED WITH HELPING
FINANCE THE EFFORT.
MEANWHILE, KURDISH FIGHTERS IN
SYRIA HAVE CUT A KEY ISLAMIC
STATE SUPPLY LINE FROM IRAQ.
THE KURDS LAUNCHED AN OFFENSIVE
OVER THE WEEKEND, WITH HEAVY
FIGHTING JUST A FEW MILES FROM
THE IRAQI BORDER.
AMID THE FIGHTING, ISIS
COMBATANTS HAVE SEIZED UP TO 150
CHRISTIANS IN THE REGION.
A WAR OF WORDS ESCALATED TODAY
BETWEEN THE WHITE HOUSE AND
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU.
IT INVOLVED HIS PLANNED ADDRESS
TO CONGRESS NEXT WEEK ON THEINVT
CONSULTING THE WHITE HOUSE.
SOME DEMOCRATS HAVE NOW SAID
THEY WILL SKIP THE SPEECH.
LAST NIGHT, NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR SUSAN RICE OFFERED THE
SHARPEST CRITICISM YET, TO
CHARLIE ROSE ON PBS.
>> Ifill: NETANYAHU, WHO'S IN
THE MIDDLE OF AN ELECTION
CAMPAIGN, FIRED BACK TODAY
DURING A VISIT TO A JEWISH
SETTLEMENT NEAR JERUSALEM.
>> ( translated ): THERE ARE
MANY REASONS TO WORRY ABOUT THE
AGREEMENT THAT IS FORMING NOW.
THE WORLD POWERS HAVE COMMITTED.
>> Ifill: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAS SAID, DESPITE
EARLY REPORTS, NO DEAL IS IN
PLACE.
IRAN STAGED A MAJOR SHOW OF
MILITARY FORCE TODAY, TAKING AIM
AT A LIFE-SIZE MODEL OF A U.S.
AIRCRAFT CARRIER.
STATE TELEVISION BROADCAST WAR
GAMES NEAR THE ENTRANCE TO THE
PERSIAN GULF.
SPECTATORS LOOKED ON AS
SPEEDBOATS RACED IN, AND
MISSILE BATTERIES FIRED ON THE
MOCK-UP, DOING HEAVY DAMAGE.
THE U.S. NAVY DISMISSED THE
EXERCISE.
A SPOKESMAN SAID: "THEY'VE
ATTEMPTED TO DESTROY THE
EQUIVALENT OF A HOLLYWOOD MOVIE
SET."
IN AFGHANISTAN, AT LEAST 124
PEOPLE DIED IN AVALANCHES
TRIGGERED BY HEAVY SNOWFALL.
HOMES IN FOUR NORTHEASTERN
PROVINCES WERE BURIED IN THE
SNOW SLIDES.
THE HARDEST HIT AREA, ABOUT 60
MILES OUTSIDE KABUL, AFFECTED
HUNDREDS OF FAMILIES.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A NEW
WINTER STORM ROLLED INTO THE
DEEP SOUTH AND MID-ATLANTIC
TODAY, WITH UP TO EIGHT INCHES
OF SNOW EXPECTED OVERNIGHT.
IN GEORGIA, GOVERNOR NATHAN DEAL
DECLARED A STATE OF EMERGENCY,
AND SAID THIS TIME, OFFICIALS
ARE READY.
LAST YEAR, A WINTER STORM
CRIPPLED THE CITY FOR DAYS.
FAR TO THE NORTH, THE WEATHER
CAUSED HAVOC IN MAINE, WHERE
MORE THAN 75 VEHICLES CRASHED ON
A SNOWY STRETCH OF INTERSTATE 95
EARLY TODAY.
AT LEAST 17 PEOPLE WERE HURT.
AND BOSTON GOT TWO MORE INCHES
OF SNOW OVERNIGHT, TAKING ITS
TOTAL OVER 100 INCHES THIS
WINTER.
ONLY THE WINTER OF 1995-'96 WAS
WORSE.
THE FORMER MARINE WHO KILLED
"AMERICAN SNIPER" AUTHOR CHRIS
KYLE WILL SERVE LIFE IN A TEXAS
PRISON, WITHOUT PAROLE.
EDDIE RAY ROUTH WAS FOUND GUILTY
LAST NIGHT OF FATALLY SHOOTING
A JURY REJECTED HIS INSANITY
DEFENSE.
HIS LAWYERS SAID THEY'LL APPEAL.
THE RACE FOR MAYOR OF CHICAGO
WILL GO TO A RUNOFF IN APRIL.
INCUMBENT RAHM EMANUEL FELL
SHORT OF WINNING A SECOND TERM
OUTRIGHT ON TUESDAY.
HE GOT 45% OF THE VOTE TO 34%
FOR COOK COUNTY COMMISSIONER
JESUS "CHUY" GARCIA.
AS THE RESULTS CAME IN, THEY
URGED THEIR SUPER
THE RUNOFF TAKES PLACE APRIL 7.
WALL STREET FAILED TO MAKE MUCH
HEADWAY TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
MANAGED A GAIN OF 15 POINTS TO
STAY ABOVE 18,200.
BUT THE NASDAQ FELL A POINT.
AND THE S&P 500 WAS DOWN
SLIGHTLY AS WELL.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
A SHOWDOWN OVER FUNDING THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURI.
DOES A RETAILER'S DRESS CODE
TRUMP RELIGIOUS FREEDOM?
CREATING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
THAT CAN THINK AND LEARN LIKE A
HUMAN.ANIES
STRUGGLE WITH GENDER EQUALITY.
CHINA'S SECRET PLAN TO SUPPLANT
THE U.S. AS THE LEADER OF THE
WORLD.
AND, USING ART TO FOSTER
COMMUNITY IN A STRUGGLING
HOUSTON NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> Ifill: CONGRESS NOW HAS JUST
THREE DAYS LEFT TO PASS A BUDGET
FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY, BUT HASN'T AGREED
EXACTLY HOW TO GET THERE.
THE AGENCY'S FUNDING HAS BEEN
CAUGHT UP IN A WIDER DEBATE OVER
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S USE OF
EXECUTIVE ACTION TO CHANGE
IMMIGRATION LAW.
THE DISAGREEMENT HAS MADE FOR A
RARE, BUT CLEAR, SPLIT AMONG
REPUBLICANS LEADERS IN THE HOUSE
AND THE SENATE.
POLITICAL EDITOR LISA DESJARDINS
HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: THIS SHUTDOWN
SPLIT, FOR REPUBLICANS, IS A
QUESTION OF PRIORITIES.
EVERYONE AGREES THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY MUST BE
FUNDED.
AND REPUBLICANS IN GENERAL ALL
OPPOSE THE PRESIDENTS EXECUTIVE
ACTIONS TO PROTECT MORE
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS SAY THE
IMMIGRATION ISSUE IS PRIORITY.
THEY VOTED TO FUND HOMELAND
SECURITY BUT ONLY WITH A BLOCK
OF THE PRESIDENT'S POLICIES
ATTACHED.
BUT THAT BILL HAS DIED IN THE
SENATE, WHERE SENATE REPUBLICANS
ARE PRIORITIZING HOMELAND
SECURITY WITH A BILL THAT DOES
NOTHING BUT FUND THE AGENCY.
IT IS A BACK AND FORTH WITH AN
AGENCY IN THE MIDDLE.
TODAY, SPEAKER BOEHNER POINTED
BACK TO THE REPUBLICAN-LED
SENATE.
>> THE HOUSE HAS DONE IT'S JOB
TO FUND THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY AND TO STOP
THE PRESIDENT'S OVERREACH ON
IMMIGRATION AND WE'RE WAITING
FOR THE SENATE TO DO IT'S JOB.
>> Reporter: AND THE SENATE
RESPONDED WITHIN HOURS.
VOTING OVERWHELMINGLY TO START
DEBATING ITS NO-STRINGS-ATTACHED
FUNDING BILL.
>> THE AYES ARE 98, THE NAYS ARE
2.
>> Reporter: IN THE HALLS OF THE
CAPITOL IIS AT  FIGHT AMONG
CONSERVATIVES.
ALABAMA'S MO BROOKS IS
DETERMINED AND DEFIANT ON
IMMIGRATION.
>> I AM NOT GOING TO VOTE FOR
ANY LEGISLATION WHETHER IT BE
LONG-TERM OR SHORT TERM THAT
SUPPORTS ILLEGAL AND
UNCONSTITUTIONAL CONDUCT.
AND SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
SPEAKER'S PLAN IS GOING FORWARD
BUT I CAN TELL YOU WHAT MY
POSITION IS AND I THINK THERE
ARE A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES WHO AGREE THAT
THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION
COMES FIRST.
>> Reporter: BUT REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN CARTER OF TEXAS WORRIES
ABOUT BORDER PATROL AGENTS.
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THOSE GUYS DOWN IN THE KAREEZO
CANE DOWN IN SOUTH TEXAS WHERE
DRUG DEALERS CROSS EVERYDAY
CARRYING HEAVY FIREARMS THOSE
GUYS ARE GETTING A PAYCHECK.
>> Reporter: THIS POLICY BATTLE
OVER IMMIGRATION AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
OF COURSE HAS VERY LARGE
POLITICAL UNDERPINNINGS.
RIGHT NOW I'M STANDING A FEW
FEET AWAY FROM THE HOUSE
CHAMBER.
IF YOU LOOK OVER MY SHOULDER,
YOU CAN SEE THE LONG HALLWAY
LEADING TO THE U.S. SENATE.
IT'S ABOUT 600 FEET, THE LENGTH
OF TWO FOOTBALL FIELDS.
BUT FOR REPUBLICANS THIS WEEK
THAT DISTANCE HAS NEVER BEEN
GREATER AND IT HAS EVERYTHING TO
DO WITH THE DIFFERENT POLITICAL
PROBLEMS FOR REPUBLICANS IN THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE.
>> FOLLOWING THE 2010 CENSUS,
THE GOP MADE THE ELECTION
DISTRICTS THAT THEY CONTROLLED
IN VARIOUS STATES, MORE
REPUBLICAN.
NOT ONLY MORE REPUBLICAN, BUT
MORE CONSERVATIVE.
>> Reporter: STAN COLLENDER IS A
POLICY ANALYST AND STRATEGIST
FOR QORVIS COMMUNICATIONS.
HE SAYS WHILE THE HOUSE SWEPT
WITH MORE CONSERVATIVE
DISTRICTS, SENATE REPUBLICANS
WON THEIR MAJORITY BY WINNING
OVERALL IN PURPLE STATES WITH
MODERATE VOTES, LIKE NORTH
CAROLINA AND IOWA.
>> IF THEY GO TOO FAR TO THE
RIGHT, THAT IS IF REPUBLICAN
SENATORS TRY TO DUPLICATE WHAT
THE REPUBLICAN HOUSE MEMBERS ARE
DOING, IT WILL HURT POLITICALLY.
>> Reporter: THIS IS WHAT'S
FUELING THE GOP DIVIDE.
IN THE SENATE, MITCH McCONNELL
HAS A THIN MAJORITY WITH 54
SEATS.
IF HE LOSES FOUR SEATS, THE
SENATE IS TIED.
PROBLEM IS, NEXT YEAR, McCONNELL
HAS SEVEN SEATS THAT COULD BE
VULNERABLE.
NOW, LOOK AT SPEAKER BOEHNER'S
SITUATION IN THE HOUSE.
HE HAS A WIDE MAJORITY-- 57 MORE
SEATS THAN DEMOCRATS.
THEIR VULNERABLE MEMBERS AND
STILL KEEP THE HOUSE.
A BIGGER ISSUE IS FINDING
AGREEMENT-- BOEHNER HAS SOME 20-
60 CONSERVATIVES CALLING FOR
TOUGH, NO-COMPROMISE STANCES,
THAT MAKES ANY VOTE DIFFICULT...
AND ADD TO THAT-- SOME
CONSERVATIVES REGULARLY ISSUE
THREATS AND QUESTION IF BOEHNER
SHOULD BE SPEAKER.
RESULT?
FOR NOW, BOEHENER IS NOT TAKING
A FIRM POSITION EITHER WAY.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
SENATE'S CAPABLE OF  PASSING AND
UNTIL I SEE WHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO PASS, NO DECISION'S BEEN
MADE.
>> Reporter: WHICH IS PRECISELY
THE PROBLEM FOR HOMELAND
SECURITY SECRETARY JEH JOHNSON.
>> THERE ARE CONCRETE DRAMATIC
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE HOMELAND
SECURITY OF THIS NATION IF WE
ALLOW THE FUNDING OF THE
DEPARTMENT TO LAPSE.
>> Ifill: AND LISA JOINS ME NOW
FROM THE U.S. CAPITOL
LISA, IF THIS PAST 98-2 IN THE
SENATE, WHAT'S THE REAL HOLD-UP
IN THE HOUSE?
>> AN OVERWHELMING VOTE IN THE
SENATE, I THINK, GWEN, IT COMES
DOWN TO THE FACT AMONG
CONSERVATIVES, THE HOUSES THAT
MORE CONSERVATIVES AND THOSE
FOLKS ARE IN FACT MORE
CONSERVATIVE THEMSELVES.
IT'S JUST A MORE CONSERVATIVE
BODY IN THE HOUSE, AND THEY ARE
APPROACHING THISWITH KIND OF TOR
STANCES, DIGGING IN FATHERRER
THAN THE SENATE.
ALSO, GWEN, I'D LIKE TO MENTION
I THINK TWO BODIES OPERATE
DIFFERENTLY.
THEY ALWAYS HAVE, AND WHAT WE'RE
SEEING HERE IS REPUBLICANS HAVE
YET TO FULLY SYNC UP.
THEY ARE IN CHARGE IN BOTH
BODIES BUT THEY HAVEN'T YET
FIGURED OUT HOW TO MAKE THE
MACHINERY WORK WHILE THEY'RE IN
CHARGE.
>> Ifill: SO IS THERE A PLAN
TO GET THROUGH THIS?
IS THERE AN END GAME OR IS IT
GOING TO COME TO ANOTHER
STANDOFF LIKE WE HAVE SEEN
BEFORE?
>> THERE IS NOT AN END GAME YET
OFFICIALLY, BUT READING THE TEA
LEAVES, GWEN, TALKING TO SOURCES
UP HERE ON THE HILL, IT LOOKS
LIKE WHAT WILL LIKELY HAPPEN IS
SOME TIME TOMORROW WE COULD SEE
THE SENATE MOVE FORWARD WITH
PERHAPS A FINAL VOTE ON ITS
FUNDING PLAN.
THAT, OF COURSE, DEPENDS ON
MAYBE WILL THERE BE OBJECTIONS
FROM TED CRUZ OR JEFF SESSIONS
AND OTHERS.
BUT LIKELY A SENATE VOTE SOME
TIME TOMORROW NIGHT.
THEN IF THAT MOVES TO THE HOUSE,
THAT WOULD BE A FUNDING BILL
WITHOUT ANY STRINGS ATTACHED,
THE PRESSURE IS ON THE HOUSE.
ARE THEY READY TO SHUT DOWN
GOVERNMENT OVER THIS-- OR RATHER
SHUT DOWN HOMELAND SECURITY OVER
THIS ISSUE?
THEY KNOW THAT A SHUTDOWN REALLY
IS NOT THE RIGHT WORD THAT IN
FACT MOST OF HOMELAND SECURITY
WILL STAY OPERATING AND JUST IN
FACT HOMELAND SECURITY OFFICERS
WILL NOT GET PAID IMMEDIATELY.
THEY'RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT THE TRADEOFF IS THERE, HOW
MUCH WILL THEY GET BLAMED FOR
SUCH A PRACTICAL, AND IN FACT,
GWEN, IT LOOKS LIKE A LOT OF
TALK RIGHT NOW MEANS PEE WOULD
BE HERE THIS WEEKEND WORKING OUT
THIS PROBLEM.
PERHAPS THERE'S A PARTIAL
SHUTDOWN OF A DAY OR TWO FOR
HOMELAND SECURITY, TECHNICALLY,
BUT ALREADY IN CONGRESS' MIND,
IT'S MONDAY THAT MATTERS WHEN
HOMELAND SECURITY SECURITY
WORKFORCE IN BULK WOULD GO BACK
TO WORK.
>> Ifill, OKAY, LISA, HERE'S A
THEORY.
WE SAW JEH JOHNSON JUST NOW IN
YOUR PIECE, BUT WE ALSO KNOW HE
CAME OUT TODAY, STANDING BESIDE
HIM WERE TWO FORMER REPUBLICAN
D.H.S. SECRETARIES, MICHAEL
CHERTOFF AND TOM RIDGE WHO
CALLED THE PLAN TO TRY TO HOLD--
I THINK THE WORD CHERTOFF USED
WAS "HOSTAGE," HOLDING IT
HOSTAGE AND THE TERM TOM RIDGE
CALLED IT WAS FOLLY.
IS THAT A PERSUASIVE ARGUMENT
FOR THESE VERY CONSERVATIVE
REPUBLICANS WHO JUST DISAGREE
WITH THE PRESIDENT ON THIS?
>> THIS IS A THEORY THAT'S OUT
HERE-- PUT PRESSURE ON
REPUBLICANS FROM REPUBLICANS.
BUT, GWEN, HONESTLY, YOLK THAT
PRESSURE IS WORKING YET ON THE
HOUSE.
THAT IS SOMETHING THE SENATE IS
RESPONDING TO.
THAT'S WHY WE SAW SUCH A BIG
VOTE TODAY TO MOVE ALONG, LET'S
GET THE AGENCY FUNDED.
IN THE HOUSE THE PRIORITIES ARE
DIFFERENT, AS WE SAID IN THE
STORY.
THEY ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THIS
IMMIGRATION ACTION AND THERE ARE
CONSERVATIVES THERE WHO SAY THEY
DON'T WANT ANYTHING ELSE TO
HAPPEN UNTIL IMGRATION IS DEALT
WITH.
ONE OTHER NOTE, GWEN.
I THINK THIS IS A SIGN OF MORE
THINGS TO COME.
WHILE THIS IMMIGRATION SHOWDOWN
COULD BE RESOLVED WITHIN A FEW
DAYS, THERE ARE MANY MORE
CLIFFS, SHOWDOWNS LIKE THIS
AHEAD.
WE'LL SEE IF REPUBLICANS CAN GET
ON THE SAME PAGE SEVERAL MORE
TIMES THIS SUMMER.
>> Ifill: LISA DESJARDINS
WATCHING IT ALL UNFOLD UP ON
CAPITOL HILL.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU GOT IT.
>> Ifill: NOW WE TURN TO THE
SUPREME COURT, WHERE THE
JUSTICES TODAY HEARD THE CASE OF
A WOMAN WHO WENT TO A JOB
INTERVIEW WEARING A HEAD SCARF,
AND DIDN'T GET THE JOB.
BUT WHY?
AT THE HEART OF THE CASE,
BUSINESS RIGHTS VERSUS RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM.
AS ALWAYS, NEWSHOUR CONTRIBUTOR
MARCIA COYLE OF THE "NATIONAL
LAW JOURNAL" WAS AT THE COURT.
HOW DID THIS CASE GET TO THE
SUPREME COURT, MARCIA?
>> GWEN, TITLE 7 IS OUR NATION'S
MAJOR BOB BIAS LAW, AND IT
PROHIBITS DISCRIMINATION ON THE
BASIS OF RACE.
IT ACTUALLY MAKES IT AN UNLAWFUL
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICE FOR AN
EMPLOYER TO FAIL TO REASONABLY
ACCOMMODATE RELIGIOUS BELIEFS OR
PRACTICES UNLESS THAT WOULD
CREATE AN UNDUE HARDSHIP ON THE
BUSINESS ITSELF.
A LOWER FEDERAL APPELLATE COURT
HERE RULED THAT ABERCROMBIE AND
FITCH WAS NOT LIABLE UNDER TITLE
VII WHEN IT FAILED TO HIRE
SAMANTHA ELOVE, WHO IS MUSLIM
AND WEARS A HEAD SCARF, A WHAT
JEEB, BECAUSE THE APPELLATE
COURT SAID AN EMPLOYER CAN ONLY
BE LIABLE IF THE EMPLOYER
RECEIVES DIRECT NOTICE FROM THE
JOB APPLICANT OR THE EMPLOYEE
THAT THERE IS A NEED FOR A
RELIGIOUS ACCOMMODATION.
THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
COMMISSION BROUGHT THE APPEAL TO
THE SUPREME COURT CHALLENGING
THAT RULE, AND THAT WAS THE CASE
THAT THE COURT HEARD TODAY.
>> Ifill: IN THIS CASE,
ABERCROMBIE AND FITCH THIS KIND
OF CATERS TO THE YOUTH MARKET
AND HAS A CERTAIN LOOK, SAID HER
HAJIB, OR THE WAY SHE WAS
DRESSED FOR THIS JOB INTERVIEW,
DIDN'T MATCH THEIR LOOK THAT
THEY WANTED THEIR EMPLOYEES TO
HAVE.
DID THEY SAY AT ANY POINT THAT
IT WAS BECAUSE OF RELIGION?
>> NO, ABERCROMBIE AND FITCH'S
LAWYER TODAY SAID THE SO-CALLED
LOOK POLICY IS A
RELIGION-NEUTRAL POLICY, AND
THAT SHE WAS NOT HIRED JUST
BECAUSE HER HAJIB WOULD VIOLATE
THE LOOK POLICY.
THE ARGUMENTS WERE VERY SPIRITED
TODAY, AND I WOULD SAY THAT THE
ABERCROMBIE AND FITCH'S COUNSEL
REALLY BORE THE BRUNT OF THE
QUESTIONING.
IT SEEMED AS THOUGH MORE THAN
THAN A MAJORITY OF JUSTICES WERE
SKEPTICAL OF THAT ARGUMENT-- OF
THE COMPANY'S ARGUMENT.
>> Ifill: FOR EXAMPLE.
>> HERE'S THE REAL PROBLEM.
THE GOVERNMENT BELIEVES THAT THE
BURDEN SHOULD BE ON THE EMPLOYER
BECAUSE THE EMPLOYER HERE-- TO
TAKE THE FIRST STEP IN A JOB
INTERVIEW-- BECAUSE THE EMPLOYER
HAS SUPERIOR KNOW, KNOWS THE
WORK RULES, AND IF THE EMPLOYER
SENSES, PERCEIVES, UNDERSTANDS
OR KNOWS THAT THERE COULD BE A
RELIGIOUS ISSUE, THE EMPLOYER
SHOULD JUST BRING IT UP AND
START WHAT CONGRESS INTENDED, A
DIALOGUE WITH THE JOB APPLICANT
TO SEE IF THERE WAS A RELIGIOUS
ISSUE, AND IS THERE A NEED FOR
AN ACCOMMODATION?
OTHERWISE, IF YOU PUT THE BURDEN
ON THE EMPLOYEE OR JOB
APPLICANT, AS THE LOWER COURT
HERE DID, THEY'RE RELUCTANT TO
BRING RELIGION UP IN A JOB
INTERVIEW.
AN EMPLOYER CAN REMAIN SILENT,
PERHAPS KNOWING THERE'S A
RELIGIOUS ISSUE, DISCRIMINATE,
AND ESCAPE LIABLE.
>> Ifill: EVEN JUSTICE ALITO
WHO USUALLY COMES DOWN IN FAVOR
OF BUSINESS IN THESE KINDS OF
CASES WAS AMONG THE SKEPTICAL
ONES TODAY.
>> HE WAS.
AND HE'S ACTUALLY VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION
IN GENERAL, AND HE SAID-- HE
REALLY SIMPLIFIED THIS AND SAID,
"LOOK, WHY CAN'T AN EMPLOYER
JUST SAY, FOR ONE OF THE
HYPOTHETICALS -- YOU HAVE
SOMEBODY WEARING A BEARD IN
FRONT OF YOU-- WHY CAN'T AN
EMPLOYER JUST SAY CURING THE
INTERVIEW 'WE HAVE A WORK POLICY
THAT EXCLUDES BEERDZ.
DO YOU HAVE A PROBLEM WITH THAT?
'" IT DOESN'T DRAW RELIGION INTO
IT RIGHT AWAY.
BUT THE ONUS SHIFTS TO THE JOB
APPLICANT TO SAY IF HE OR SHE
DOES HAVE A PROBLEM WITH IT.
>> Ifill: I HAVE A VERY QUICK
QUESTION FOR YOU, WHICH IS WE'VE
HAD A COUPLE OF OTHER RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM CASES BEFORE THE COURT,
WHETHER THE HOBBY LOBBY CASE,
WHETHER THEY HAVE THE RIGHT TO
GIVE ABORTION BENEFITS OR-- YOU
MENTIONED THE BEARD, A MUSLIM
PRISONER WHO HAD A BEARD.
IS THERE SIMILAR OR DIFFERENT?
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFERENT BECAUSE
IT FALLS UNDER A PARTICULAR
STATUTE THAT DOES MAKE IT
ILLEGAL TO FAIL TO REASONABLY
ACCOMMODATE RELIGIOUS BELIEFS.
BUT THE COURT-- I MEAN, THE LAW
IS VERY CLEAR, AND THE COURT,
EVEN UNDER THE FIRST AMENDMENT
AND RELIGIOUS FREEDOM, IS QUITE
PROTECTIVE OF THOSE FREEDOMS.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT CASE.
BUSINESS IS WATCHING IT CLOSELY,
TOO, BECAUSE IT BELIEVES THAT IF
IT LOSES HERE, IT'S GOING TO BE
FORCED INTO STEREOTYPING PEOPLE
WHO APPLY FOR JOBS IN ORDER TO
AVOID LIABILITY.
>> Ifill: WELL, THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT RIGHT
NOW.
THANK YOU, MARCIA COYLE, FOR
THIS, AS ALWAYS.
>> MY PLEASURE, GWEN.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE ON
THE TWO SIDE OF THE ARGU
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON THE TWO
SIDES OF THE ARGUMENT, WE TURN
TO MUNIA JABBAR, A CIVIL RIGHTS
ATTORNEY, FORMERLY OF THE
COUNCIL ON AMERICAN-ISLAMIC
RELATIONS.
AND RAE VANN, WHO IS AN ATTORNEY
WITH THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
ADVISORY COUNCIL.
MUNIA JABBAR, WHAT IS AN
EMPLOYER'S RESPONSIBILITY, IN
YOUR OPINION, IN THIS CASE?
>> AN EMPLOYER'S RESPONSIBILITY
IS NOT TO BURIY THEIR HEAD IN
THE STAND WHEN THEY ARE ON
NOTICE THAT A POTENTIAL EMPLOYEE
WILL NEED A REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATION FROM THEM TO WORK
FOR THEM.
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, IN THIS CASE,
THERE WERE SUPERVISORS PLEASE
WHO RECOGNIZED THE YOUNG WOMAN'S
HEAD SCARF AS AS HAJIB, AND A
HAJIB IS A RELIGIOUS GARMENT.
INSTEAD OF ENGAGING IN A
DIALOGUE WITH HER AT ALL, OR
ASKING HER DO YOU THINK YOU'RE
GOG HAVE ANY PROBLEMS TO GO THIS
JOB?
THEY DECIDED TO AVOID THE ISSUE.
AND OTHERWISE SHE SEEMED TO BE A
GOOD CANDIDATE.
>> Ifill: RAE VANN, IN YOUR
OPINION WHAT, ISAB EMPLOYEE'S OR
APPLICANT'S RESPONSIBILITY IN A
CASE LIKE THIS?
>> THE APPLICANT IN THIS CONTEXT
HANS OBLIGATION TO PUT THE
EMPLOYER ON NOTICE OF HIS OR HER
SINCERELY HELD RELIGIOUS BELIEF.
IT WOULD BE VERY PROBLEMATIC, AS
A PRACTICAL MATTER, TO IMPOSE AN
OBLIGATION ON EMPLOYERS UNDER A
BROAD RULE, THE TYPE OF RULE
THAT THE E.E.O.C. IS PROPOSE
HERE, THAT THE EMPLOYER DELVE
INTO, TRY TO DIVINE AN
APPLICANT'S RELIGIOUS BELIEFS
BASED MERELY ON HOW HE OR SHE
PRESENTS HIM OR HERSELF AT THE
INTERVIEW.
>> Ifill: WELL, LET ME ASK YOU
THIS, RAE VANN.
IF AN APPLICANT WAS WEARING A
YARMULKE, IS THAT SOMETHING THE
EMPLOYER OR EMPLOYEE SHOULD HAVE
TO MENTION IF FOR SOME REASON
THE EMPLOYEE POLICY DOESN'T
ALLOW FOR HEAD GEAR?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY DANGEROUS
TO GET INTO THE BUSINESS OF
REQUIRING AN EMPLOYER TO ENGAGE
IN THAT CONVERSATION.
THE CASES LIKE THE YARMULKE,
LIKE THE EXAMPLE THAT JUSTICE
ALITO PROVIDED IN COURT TODAY
ABOUT THE APPLICANT WHO APPEARS
IN A NUN'S HABIT, THOSE ARE NOT
NECESSARILY DIFFICULT QUESTIONS.
THE MORE DIFFICULT CASE COMES
WHEN YOU HAVE SOMEONE, FOR
INSTANCE, WHO APPEARS FOR JOB
INTERVIEW COVEREDDED WITH
TATTOOS, AND IS APPLYING FOR A
FRONT-OF-THE-HOUSE POSITION.
THE EMPLOYER DOES NOT WISH TO
HIRE THAT PERSON BECAUSE THAT IS
NOT THE IMAGE THAT IT WISHES TO
PROJECT.
NTHAT PARTICULAR POSITION.
UNDER THE E.E.O.C.'S
FORMULATION, THE EMPLOYER WOULD
HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INQUIRE OF
THAT PERSON-- INQUIRE AS TO
WHETHER OR NOT THE DISPLAY OF
TATTOOSES IS BASED ON A
SINCERELY HELD RELIGIOUS BELIEF.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK MUNIA
JABBAR ABOUT THAT.
ARE WE TALKING ABOUT DISCRIM
NEIGHBORS RELIGIOUS FREEDOM, OR
DOES THE TATTOO EXAMPLE HOLD UP?
>> I THINK THE TATTOO EXAMPLE
CAN EASILY BE DEALT WITH,
BECAUSE IF AN EMPLOYER IS NOT
CONCERNED ABOUT THE PERSON'S
RELIGION BUT IS INSTEAD
ABILITY TO DO THE JOB, I WOULD
CONCERNED ABOUT THE PERSON'S
THINK THAT THE EMPLOYER WOULD
ABILITY TO DO THE JOB, I WOULD
JUST ASK THE JOB CANDIDATE,
THINK THAT THE EMPLOYER WOULD
LOOK, I'VE NOTICED YOU HAVE SOME
JUST ASK THE JOB CANDIDATE,
TATTOOS, HERE IS OUR LOOK
LOOK, I'VE NOTICED YOU HAVE SOME
POLICY, OR THESE ARE OUR
TATTOOS, HERE IS OUR LOOK
POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO
POLICY, OR THESE ARE OUR
FRONT-OF-THE-HOUSE OR PUBLIC
POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO
INTERACTION JOBS.
FRONT-OF-THE-HOUSE OR PUBLIC
WOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM
INTERACTION JOBS.
COMPLYING WITH THIS IN SOME WAY?
WOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM
AND THAT COULD SURFACE THE
COMPLYING WITH THIS IN SOME WAY?
DISCUSSION.
AND THAT COULD SURFACE THE
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU
DISCUSSION.
ANOTHER THING.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU
HERE'S A-- IS IT POSSIBLE, OR
ANOTHER THING.
CONCEIVABLE, THAT SOMEONE COULD
HERE'S A-- IS IT POSSIBLE, OR
BE-- APPEAR FOR ANY REASON IN
CONCEIVABLE, THAT SOMEONE COULD
THEIR HEAD SCARF AND NOT BE
BE-- APPEAR FOR ANY REASON IN
RELIGIOUS AT ALL, NOT BE A
THEIR HEAD SCARF AND NOT BE
RELIGIOUS ITEM AT ALL?
RELIGIOUS AT ALL, NOT BE A
>> IT'S POSSIBLE, BUT AGAIN, I
RELIGIOUS ITEM AT ALL?
THINK THATAT
>> IT'S POSSIBLE, BUT AGAIN, I
THAT CASE IS THAT THE WOULD ASK,
THINK THATAT
WELL, YOU KNOW, AGAIN, "HERE IS
THAT CASE IS THAT THE WOULD ASK,
OUR POLICY.
WELL, YOU KNOW, AGAIN, "HERE IS
I NOTICE YOU ARE WEARING A
OUR POLICY.
SCARF.
I NOTICE YOU ARE WEARING A
WOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM
SCARF.
COMPLYING WITH THE POLICY FOR
WOULD YOU HAVE A PROBLEM
ANY REASON?"
COMPLYING WITH THE POLICY FOR
THE OTHER REASON IS I THINK IT'S
ANY REASON?"
NAIVE TO THINK THAT EMPLOYERS AT
THE OTHER REASON IS I THINK IT'S
THIS POINT AREN'T SAVVY ENOUGH
NAIVE TO THINK THAT EMPLOYERS AT
TO BE AWBL TO IDENTIFY THE MOST
THIS POINT AREN'T SAVVY ENOUGH
COMMON HALLMARKS OF RELIGIOUS
TO BE AWBL TO IDENTIFY THE MOST
GROOMING.
COMMON HALLMARKS OF RELIGIOUS
FOR EXAMPLE, SOME STUDIES HAVE
GROOMING.
SHOWN THAT THE GENERAL AMERICAN
FOR EXAMPLE, SOME STUDIES HAVE
PUBLIC, OVER 90%, CAN RECOGNIZE
SHOWN THAT THE GENERAL AMERICAN
A HAJIB HEAD SCARF AND HOW IT
PUBLIC, OVER 90%, CAN RECOGNIZE
OFTEN LOOKS, CORVEG THE HAIR AND
A HAJIB HEAD SCARF AND HOW IT
THE NECK WHEN IT IS WORN.
OFTEN LOOKS, CORVEG THE HAIR AND
SO I THINK THAT EVEN IF THE
THE NECK WHEN IT IS WORN.
APPLICANT DOESN'T GIVE VERBAL
SO I THINK THAT EVEN IF THE
NOTICE, THE EMPLOYER WILL OFTEN
APPLICANT DOESN'T GIVE VERBAL
STILL BE ON NOTICE BECAUSE
NOTICE, THE EMPLOYER WILL OFTEN
THEY'RE GOING TO SEE THE SCARF,
STILL BE ON NOTICE BECAUSE
AND THEY'RE GOING TO RECOGNIZE
THEY'RE GOING TO SEE THE SCARF,
IT.
AND THEY'RE GOING TO RECOGNIZE
>> Ifill: RAE VANN, WHY DON'T
IT.
YOU RESPOND TO THAT.
>> Ifill: RAE VANN, WHY DON'T
>> THAT MAY WELL BE THE CASE
YOU RESPOND TO THAT.
WITH RESPECT TO THE YARMULKE OR
>> THAT MAY WELL BE THE CASE
EVEN PERHAPS A HAJIB, OR A NUN'S
WITH RESPECT TO THE YARMULKE OR
HABIT, BUT THAT IS IT NOT HOLD
EVEN PERHAPS A HAJIB, OR A NUN'S
WATER WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT BODY
HABIT, BUT THAT IS IT NOT HOLD
PIERCINGS, TATTOOS, FACIAL HAIR,
WATER WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT BODY
HAIR LENGTH.
PIERCINGS, TATTOOS, FACIAL HAIR,
THOSE ARE ALL PERSONAL STYLES
HAIR LENGTH.
THAT CAN BE ATRIBUTED TO OR BE
THOSE ARE ALL PERSONAL STYLES
THE RESULT OF A SINCERELY HELD
THAT CAN BE ATRIBUTED TO OR BE
RELIGIOUS BELIEF, OR THEY COULD
THE RESULT OF A SINCERELY HELD
BE SYMBOLS OF A STYLE, A STYLE
RELIGIOUS BELIEF, OR THEY COULD
THAT AN INDIVIDUAL SEEKS TO
BE SYMBOLS OF A STYLE, A STYLE
DISPLAY.
THAT AN INDIVIDUAL SEEKS TO
SO I THINK THAT, AGAIN, IT'S A
DISPLAY.
COMPLEX ISSUE, BUT WE SHOULDN'T
SO I THINK THAT, AGAIN, IT'S A
LOSE SIGHT OF THE FACT THAT THIS
COMPLEX ISSUE, BUT WE SHOULDN'T
IS NOT ABOUT ABERCROMBIE & FITCH
LOSE SIGHT OF THE FACT THAT THIS
NOT WANTING TO PROVIDE WORKPLACE
IS NOT ABOUT ABERCROMBIE & FITCH
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS TO
NOT WANTING TO PROVIDE WORKPLACE
APPLICANTS, OR EMPLOYEES OR ANY
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS TO
EMPLOYER WANTED TO DO THAT.
APPLICANTS, OR EMPLOYEES OR ANY
IT IS WHAT TRIGGERS THE
EMPLOYER WANTED TO DO THAT.
OBLIGATION TO ENGAGE IN THE
IT IS WHAT TRIGGERS THE
DISCUSSION, AND WE BELIEVE THAT
OBLIGATION TO ENGAGE IN THE
THERE ARE NUMEROUS PRACTICAL
DISCUSSION, AND WE BELIEVE THAT
DIFFICULTIES ASSOCIATED WITH
THERE ARE NUMEROUS PRACTICAL
REQUIRING EMPLOYERS ACROSS THE
DIFFICULTIES ASSOCIATED WITH
BOARD TO SIMPLY ENGAGE IN THE
REQUIRING EMPLOYERS ACROSS THE
DISCUSSION BASED ON SOME
BOARD TO SIMPLY ENGAGE IN THE
ASSUMPTION OR BELIEF.
DISCUSSION BASED ON SOME
>> Ifill: WE WILL SEE HOW THE
ASSUMPTION OR BELIEF.
SUPREME COURT RULES.
>> Ifill: WE WILL SEE HOW THE
MUNIA JABBAR, CIVIL RIGHTS
SUPREME COURT RULES.
ATTORNEY, AND RAE VANN, OF THE
MUNIA JABBAR, CIVIL RIGHTS
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ADVISORY
ATTORNEY, AND RAE VANN, OF THE
COUNCIL.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT ADVISORY
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
COUNCIL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: NOW, PLAYING VIDEO
GAMES MIGHT SEEM LIKE CHILD'S
PLAY.
BUT AS TOM CLARKE OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS, IT'S
ALSO AT THE FRONTIER OF
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.
( BEEPING )
>> T.
>> Reporter: IT WAS THE LATE
1970s AND FOR THE FIRST
GENERATION OF VIDEO GAMERS ATARI
WAS KING.
BY THE STANDARDS OF THE DAY, THE
GRAPHICS WERE MIND BLOWING.
THE SOUND OUT OF THIS WORLD.
THE SELECTION OF GAMES JUST WENT
ON AND ON AND ON.
OH!
COMPARED TO THE VIDEO GAMES OF
TODAY, ATARI LOOKS PRETTY
CLUNKY, BUT THE GAMES ARE STILL
QUITE DIFFICULT TO PLAY,
ESCIALPELY IF YOU HAVEN'T PICKED
ONE UP FOR 30 YEARS LIKE ME.
BUT IT'S THAT EXACT COMBINATION
OF SIMPLE GRAPHICS BUT QUITE
CHALLENGING GAME PRAY THAT
ATTRACTED THE CUTTING EDGE OF
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
RESEARCHERS BACK TO THE 1970s.
THIS VERSION OF SPACE INVADERS
ISN'T BEING PLAYED BY A PERSON
BUT A SYSTEM OF COMPUTER
ALGRIGTHSIMS LISTENING HOW TO
PLAY IT JUST BY LOOKING AT THE
PIXELS ON THE SCREEN.
IT MAY NOT SOUND LIKE IT, BUT
IT'S SOMETHING OF A
BREAKTHROUGH.
THE WORK OF ONE OF THE FINEST
YOUNG MINDS IN A.I. RESEARCH,
NORTH LONDONER RICHAR.
>> WE DON'T GIVE ANY CLUES ABOUT
WHAT IT IS SUPPOSED TO DO IN THE
GAME, HOW IT GETS THE SCORE,
WHAT'S VALUABLE IN THE GAME,
WHAT THE STRATEGIES ARE.
IT HAS TO LEARN ALL THOSE THINGS
FROM FIRST PRINCIPLES.
>> HE SHOWS ME HIS SYSTEM
PLAYING THE CLASSIC PADDLE GAME
BREAKOUT.
>> SO NOW ABOUT TWO HOURS IN,
NOW IT CAN PLAY THE GAME PRETTY
MUCH AS GOOD AS ANY PROFESSIONAL
HUMAN PLAYER COULD, EVEN WHEN
IT'S COMING AT VERY FAST ANGLES.
WE THOUGHT THAT'S PRETTY GOOD
BUT WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF WE LEFT
IT PLAYING FOR ANOTHER COUPLE OF
HOURS.
IT DID THIS UNEXPECTED THING
WHERE IT FOUND THE ULTIMATE
STRATEGY WAS DIG A TUNNEL AROUND
THE SIDE AND SEBD THE BALL
BEHIND THE WALL, SO YOU SEE THE
OPTIMAL STRATEGY AND SAFEST
STRATEGY.
>> Reporter: OUT OF 49
EXCRETELY DIFFERENT ATARI GAMES
TESTED, THE SYSTEM PLAYED MORE
THAN HALF OF THEM BETTER THAN A
HUMAN, A SIMPLE DEMONSTRATN OIOF
WHAT A.I. RESEARCHER RESEARCHER,
NONTRIVIAL INTELLIGENCE.
>> THIS IS WHAT THE ESSENCE OF
INTELLIGENCE IS, IS FINDING
STRUCTURE AND MEANING IN YOUR
PERCEPTUAL INPUTS AND THEN BEING
ABLE TO ACT INTELLIGENTLY TO
MAKE A PLAN USING THAT MODEL OF
THE WORLD.
>> AND THAT'S WHAT THIS SYSTEM
DOES?
>> THAT'S WHAT THIS SYSTEM DOES.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO DISCUSS
SOME OF THE RISKS AND MAKE SURE
WE'RE AWARE OF THOSE AND IT'S
DECADES AND DECADES AWAY BEFORE
WE'LL HAVE ANYTHING POWERFUL
ENOUGH TO BE A WORRY BUT WE
SHOULD BE DISCUSSING THAT AND
BEGINNING THAT CONVERSATION NOW.
>> Reporter: THEY'VE BEEN
AROUND SINCE THE 1970s, AND
THE MACHINES HAVEN'T TAKEN OVER
YET.
BUT, HUMANITY, WATCH THIS
SPACE--
>> Ifill: A DISCRIMINATION
LAWSUIT IN CALIFORNIA IS SHINING
A LIGHT ON THE HIRING AND
PROMOTION PRACTICES OF HIGH-TECH
BUSINESSES, ESPECIALLY WHEN IT
COMES TO WOMEN.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK.
>> Brown: THE CASE CENTERS ON
ONE OF THE INDUSTRY'S MOST
PROMINENT VENTURE CAPITAL FIRMS:
KLEINER, PERKINS.
ELLEN PAO, A FORMER ATTORNEY AND
ENGINEER THERE, FILED A GENDER
DISCRIMINATION SUIT, CLAIMING
SHE WAS PRESSURED INTO A
RELATIONSHIP WITH A MARRIED
COLLEAGUE, WAS BARRED FROM KEY
MEETINGS, AND PASSED OVER FOR
PROMOTION.
THE COMPANY SAY THE RELATIONSHIP
WAS CONSENSUAL AND THERE WAS NO
DISCRIMINATION.
BUT THE CASE ALSO HAS A LARGER
ECHO, PLAYING INTO A LONG-
RUNNING CRITIQUE OF THE ROLE AND
TREATMENT OF WOMEN IN THE BIG-
MONEY, MALE-DOMINATED WORLD OF
SILICON VALLEY.
WITH A HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW
STUDY FINDING A "HOSTILE WORK
ENVIRONMENT" FOR MANY WOMEN,
AND ANOTHER BY BABSON COLLEGE
FINDING THAT JUST UNDER 3% OF
SILICON VALLEY FIRMS THAT
RECEIVE VENTURE CAPITAL FUNDING
HAVE FEMALE CEOs.
NICOLE SANCHEZ IS THE FOUNDER
AND CEO OF VAYA CONSULTING,
A GROUP THAT HELPS RECRUIT AND
RETAIN DIVERSE EMPLOYEES IN
SILICON VALLEY.
AND NELLIE BOWLES IS A REPORTER
ON THE TRIAL FOR "RE-CODE,"
AND WAS IN THE COURTROOM TODAY,
NELLIE BOWLES, THIS IS REALLY
BEING BITTERLY FOUGHT, ISN'T IT?
YOU WERE THERE.
FILL US IN BRIEFLY ON THE CLAIMS
AND COUNTER-CLAIMS.
>> YES, IT'S VERY INTENSE.
THIS IS RAY HUGELY HISTORIC
CASE.
KLEINER PERKINS IS A REALLYPECTS
THE C.E.O. OF REDDIT ONE OF THE
LARGEST WEB SITES ON THE
INTERNET, AND SHE IS ALLEGING
SHE WAS PASSED UP FOR PROMOTIONS
AND ULTIMATELY FIRED FROM
KLEINER PERKINS BASED ON HER
JERPD.
AND ON HER COMPLAINTS ABOUT
GENDER DISCRIMINATION WHILE SHE
WAS THERE.
AND SO THE STAKES ARE HIGH.
IF SHE WINS, IT'S A VERY BIG
DEAL GLOWR NICOLE SANCHEZ, EVERY
CASE HAS THE PARTICULARS BUT WHY
IS THIS RESINATING SO MUCH IN
THE LARGER WORLD OUT THERE?
>> I THINK IT'S THE FIRST TIME
ANYBODY HAS TAKEN ON A FIRM THIS
SIZE AND STATURE OF A KLEINER
PERKINS.
I THINK ANECDOTALLY WOMEN IN
SILICON VALLEY KNOW THIS THING
HAPPENS QUITE FREQUENTLY.
WHETHER OR NOT WE FOUND OUT THIS
IS THE CASE WITH ELLEN POWELL,
WE ARE ALL WATCHING TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS BECAUSE NOBODY HAS TAKEN
ON A FIRM WITH THIS MUCH POWER
IN SILICON VALLEY BEFORE.
>> Brown: STAYING WITH YOU,
NICOLE, HOW DOES IT MANIFEST
ITSELF?
WHAT DO YOU SEE HAPPENING ON A
DAILY BASIS FOR WOMEN?
>> WELL, I THINK, YOU KNOW, WE
NEED TO SEPARATE OUT WHAT WE
MEAN BY "WOMEN" FIRST OF ALL.
BECAUSE I THINK WHEN WE SAY
WOMEN THERE ARE SEVERAL GROUPS
OF WOMEN FACING SIMILAR YET
DIFFERENT ENOUGH THINGS THAT
IT'S WORTH BEARING OUT.
PREDOMINANTLY THE WOMEN IN
SILICON VALLEY ARE STILL WHITE
AND ASIAN, AND THEY FACE A LOT
OF DISCRIM NEIGHBORS HARASSMENT,
THINGS LIKE MICRO-AGGRESSIONS
THAT CAUSE PEOPLE TO LEAVE JOBS,
DEATH BY A THOUSAND CUTS.
AND I THINK THERE'S A VERY
INTERESTING STUDY THAT CAME OUT
OF UC HASTINGS BY JOAN WILLIAMS
CALLED DOUBLE JEOPARDY, WHERE
WOMEN OF COLOR, PARTICULARLY
BLACK AND LATINO WOMEN, ARE
FACING AN ADDITIONAL LAYER OF
HARASSMENT AROUND RACE AS WELL
AS GENDER.
AND THIS PLAYS OUT IN A LOT OF
DIFFERENT WAYS, BOTH ONLINE AND
SOCIAL MEDIA BUT ALSO IN THE
QUIET RECESSES OF TECH COMPANY
WHERE'S A VERY MALE-DOMINATED
AND PARTICULARLY WHITE
MALE-DOMINATED SECTOR HAS BEEN
GETTING AWAY WITH A LOT FOR A
REALLY LONG TIME GLOWR NELLIE
BOWLES YOU COVER THE INDUSTRY.
WHAT RESULTS DO YOU SEE?
ARE PEOPLE WALKING WAY FROM THE
INDUSTRY?
ARE THEY FIGHTING BACK?
WHAT HAPPENS?
>> I THINK THEY'RE FIGHTING
BACK.
I THINK SOME OF THE CASES THAT
WE'RE SEEING ARE SO EGREGIOUS--
LIKE WHAT I'M SEEING IN THE
COURTROOM ARE A LOT OF REALLY
EGREGIOUS EXAMPLES OF WHETHER
IT'S GENDER-BASED DISCRIMINATION
OR WHAT, OF GENDER ISSUES WITHIN
KLEINER PERKINS ARE COMING TO
LIGHT.
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, THERE WAS TODAY
THE REVELATION THAT THERE WAS AN
ALL-MALE SKI TRIP IN WHICH ONE
ENTREPRENEUR SAID, "HEY, LET'S
TRY TO BRING SOME WOMEN ON
THIS."
AND A PARTNER ON KLEINER PERKINS
SAID, "ACTUALLY, NO.
ON THIS TRIP LET'S HAVE IT BE NO
GALS."
AND THERE'S ANOTHER STORY IN
WHICH ONE PARTNER SORT OF LURED
A FEMALE KLEINER PERKINS PARTNER
TO NEW YORK ON THE AUSPICES OF
MEETING WITH AN IMPORTANT
INTERNET EXECUTIVE, AND HE
TURNED OUT NOT TO BE THERE AND
IT WAS JUST A DATE BETWEEN THE
TWO OF THEM.
AND THEN THAT NIGHT HE TRIED TO
PUSH HIS WAY INTO HER HOTEL
ROOM, AND SHE HAD TO PUSH HIM
OUT.
AND THEN WHEN SHE WENT TO HER
KLEINER PERKINS SUPERIORS TO SAY
SHE'D LIKE THIS MAN NOT TO BE ON
HER REVIEW BOARD, THEY ACTUALLY
DENIED THAT REQUEST.
AND HE WAS HER REVIEWER.
SO LATER HE WAS FIRED, TO BE
FAIR.
BUT I THINK WE'RE SEEING SOME
REALLY BOMBED SHELL EVENTS
COMING OUT OF HERE, SO I THINK
THE RIPPLE EFFECT WILL BE HUGE.
>> Brown: NELLIE BOWLES, THE
COMPANY IS PUTTING UP A STRONG
DEFENSE RIGHT?
>> YES, OH, YEAH, THEY CAME OUT
SWINGING.
THERE'S LITTLE ROOM TO
COMPROMISE, TO PUT IT LIGHTLY.
THEY ARE SAYING THAT ELLEN
POWELL WAS HIRED BASICALLY AS A
SECRETARY TO DO SCHEDULING AND
CALENDARING AND THEN THAT SHE
WAS NEVER UP TO THE JOB OF BEING
A VENTURE CAPITALIST, AND JUST
DIDN'T ARE THE SKILL SET, DIDN'T
HAVE THE INTERPERSONAL SKILLS,
JUST WASN'T CAPABLE OF IT, WITH
VERY STRONG LANGUAGE.
THERE'S LITTLE COMPROMISE HERE.
>> Brown: NICOLE SANCHEZ, BACK
TO THE INDUSTRY MORE BROADLY.
WE ALSO SEE VERY HIGH-PROFILE
WOMEN IN THE TECH INDUSTRY.
EXPLAIN-- IS THERE A DISCONNECT?
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THERE ARE
SOME DISCONNECTS AND I THINK
THAT THE DANGER, JUST LIKE IN
ANY SECTOR, IS TO POINT TO ONE
OR TWO-- IN THIS CASE I AM
ASSUMING YOU MEAN MARISSA MAYER
AND CHERYL SANDBERG BUT IT'S
EASY TO POINT TO TWO AND SAY,
"WELL, THEY MADE IT AND WHY
CAN'T YOU?"
THERE ARE THINGS ABOUT THEIR
PROFILES, THEIR EDUCATION, THEIR
SOCIOECONOMIC BACKGROUND THAT
ALLOWED THEM TO DO THAT AND I
DON'T KNOCK THEM FOR THAT.
FOR EVERY ONE OF THEM, THERE ARE
THNS OF WOMEN WHO DON'T COME
CLOSE TO THAT BUT ARE NO LESS
TALENTED.
I THINK ANY TIME WE HOLD UP
ANYBODY FOR A ROLE MODEL FOR ALL
OF US, IT'S VERY DANGEROUS.
IT CERTAINLY DOESN'T BEAR TO
MIND THE STRUGGLES I SEE SOME OF
THE WOMEN I WAS WITH YESTERDAY,
WITH ONE OF MY CLIENTS, SOME OF
THE ENGINEERS WHO ARE JUST
TRYING TO GET GOOD CODE OUT.
THEY'RE NOT WANTING TO BE ON AN
EXECUTIVE TRACK.
THEY'RE NOT WANTING TO BE
MANAGERS.
THEY WANT TO BE ENGINEERS AND
DESIGN REALLY COOL THINGS, AND
STILL THEY ARE FACING A SET OF
MICRO-AGGRESSIONS TO HARASSMENT
THAT CAUSE THEM TO NOT EVEN BE
ABLE TO DO THAT.
SO THAT WOULD BE MY CAUTION
ABOUT HOLDING UP A COUPLE OF
WOMEN AS SUCCESS STORIES AND SAY
THE REST OF CUSS DO IT.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE WILL
LEAVE IT THERE.
NICOLE SANCHEZ, NELLIE BOWLES,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO A
CONTROVERSIAL WARNING ABOUT
CHINA, FROM A NEW BEST-SELLING
BOOK THAT'S BECOMING A LIGHTNING
ROD FOR CRITICISM.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
EXPLAINS.
>> Warner: SINCE THE 1970s,
MICHAEL PILLSBURY HAS FOCUSED ON
CHINA AS A PENTAGON OFFICIAL AND
CONSULTANT AND NOW AT THE
CONSERVATIVE HUDSON INSTITUTE.
OVER THE YEARS, THE MANDARIN
SPEAKER HAS GROWN EVER MORE HARD
LINE IN HIS VIEWS AS IS CLEAR IN
HIS BESTSELLING BUT
CONTROVERSIAL NEW BOOK, "THE
HUNDRED-YEAR MARATHON: CHINA'S
SECRET STRATEGY TO REPLACE
AMERICA AS THE GLOBAL
SUPERPOWER."
HE SAYS IT'S BASED ON CHINESE
AND AMERICAN DOCUMENTS AND BOOKS
AND CONVERTIONSAS CAN CHINESE
MILITARY OFFICIALS AND
DEFECTORS.
CRITICS HAVE SHOT BACK, ACCUSING
HIM OF SLOPPY USE OF EVIDENCE.
I SPOKE WITH PILLSBURY LAST
WEEK.
THE VERY TITLE OF YOUR BOOK
ASSERTS AMERICA HAS BEEN IN
DENIAL, BUT CHINA HAS A SECRET
STRATEGY TO REPLACE THE UNITED
STATES.
WHAT I THAT STRATEGY BASED ON?
>> THE STRATEGY IS BASED ON TWO
THINGS.
FIRST, CHINA'S HISTORICAL ROLE
IN WHAT WE WOULD TODAY CALL THE
LEADER OF THE WORLD.
THEY WANT TO RESTORE
THEMSELVESES TO THE ROLE THEY
PLAYED FOR 2,000 YEARS.
THE SECOND PART OF THE STRATEGY
IS THEY KNOW FROM THEIR
ECONOMISTS THAT THEY CAN'T BUILD
CHINA INTO A REPLACEMENT FOR US
BY THEMSELVES.
THEY'VE GOT TO GET CERTAIN
THINGS FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD,
AND THEY'VE WORKED VERY HARD IN
THE LAST 30 YEARS TO GET THOSE
THINGS.
>> Warner: IS THAT SO
SURPRISING?
>> IT'S SURPRISING BECAUSE THEY
HAVE DENIED PUBLICLY SUCH AN
AMBITION.
THEY PORTRAYED THEMSELVES AS
WEAK, BACKWARD, AND IN GREAT
NEED OF ASSISTANCE FROM US.
>> Warner: AND THE UNITED
STATES HAS BEEN A VERY WILLING
PARTNER IN ASSISTING THEM.
>> YES, BECAUSE OF FALSE
ASSUMPTION.
WE THOUGHT, GOING BACK 30 OR 40
YEARS AGO, IF CHINA BECOMES
PROSPEROUS, THE MIDDLE CLASS OF
DEMAND DEMOCRACY.
AND SO WE'RE LOOK AT A COUNTRY
THAT, YES, WAS STRONGER, BUT IT
HAS OUR VALUES.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN.
THAT'S WHAT I CALL THE GREATEST
INTELLIGENCE FAILURE IN OUR
HISTORY.
>> Warner: BUT THERE ARE OTHER
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD THAT
CONSIDER THEMSELVES GREAT
HISTORICAL POWERS AND WANT TO
RESTORE THAT GREATNESS.
WHAT MAKES CHINA-- AS YOU
PORTRAY IT-- SOMALEVOLENT OR
ENIMICAL TO U.S. INTEREST.
>> I THINK IT'S THE UNREFORMED
CHINA I'M WORRIED ABOUT.
THEY PLAN TO KEEP THE COMMIST
PARTY STRUCTURE, THE APPROACH TO
HUMAN RIGHTS, THE APPROACH TO
POLLUTION.
THEY PLAN TO KEEP ALL THAT AND
BECOME THE DOMINANT ECONOMIC
POWER.
THIS IS WHAT I'M WARPING
AGAINST.
>> Warner: WASN'T IT
INEVITABLE GIVEN CHINA'S SIZE
AND RESOURCES THAT IT WAS BOUND
TO GROW BY LEAPS AND BOUNDS.
IT DIDN'T ME THE UNITED STATES
FOR THAT.
>> THEY DID NEED US FROM FOR
THAT.
IT'S CLEAR FROM THEIR OWN
WRITINGS.
THEY BELIEVE ROUGHLY HALF THEIR
GROWTH WAS BROUGHT ABOUT BY
FAIFERL TERMS OF TRADE AND
INVESTMENT FROM AMERICA.
WE'RE CRIEWCIALG TO THEIR
STRATEGY.
>> Warner: YOU YOURSELF MADE A
PERSONAL EVOLUTION.
YOU SAY YOU USED TO BE WHAT'S
KNOWN IN THE TRADE AS A "PANDA
HUGGER."
>> A PANDA HUGIR IS SOMEONE WHO
UNCRITICALLY WANTS TO HELP AND
SUPPORT CHINA, HAS A SENSE OF
WHAT I CALL THE OLD NARRATIVE.
I CAME TO REALIZE I'D BEEN WRONG
FROM THE BEGINNING ABOUT WHO WAS
REALLY MANAGING WHOM IN THIS
RELATIONSHIP.
WE HAVE, I HATE TO SAY BEEN
THEIR PAWNS BECAUSE BEE WEE GOT
A LOT OF BENEFIT FROM OUR TRADE
WITH CHINA AND OUR INVESTMENT,
AND THEY HAVE MADE SOME ENORMOUS
PROGRESS.
BUT I THINK OVERALL THE CHINESE
ARE MANAGING US MUCH BETTER THAN
WE ARE MANAGING CHINA.
>> Warner: NOW, PEOPLE WHO
LOOKED AT THIS BOOK CRITICIZED
IT FOR RELYING WAY TOO MUCH ON
THE VIEW OF THE HAWKS INSIDE THE
DEFENSE AND INTELLIGENCE AND
MILITARY ESTABLISHMENTS.
AND THAT THERE ARE MANY OTHER
COMPUTING VOICES IN THE CHINESE
ESTABLISHMENT.
AREN'T THERE?
>> YES, THAT CRIMINAL IS VALID.
BUT THE RISE OF THE HAWKS HAS
HAPPENED.
IT'S A FACT.
PRESIDENT ZIHAS SHOWED MORE
ATTENTION, GOES TO MEET WITH
THEM IN PERSON.
I THINK THE RECOGNIZE OF THE
HAWKS THAT I'M CLAIMING HAS
TAKEN PLACE IS NOT UP FOR
DEBATE.
IT'S HAPPENED FOR SURE.
OTHER CIVILIANS HAVE INVOLVED,
TOO.
IT'S NOT JUST THE MILITARY.
THEY HAVE A MUCH MORE
NATIONALISTIC VIEW OF THE CHINA
SHOULD SPEAK OUT AND REALLY BE
SOMETHING NOW, AND NOT WAIT
UNTIL 2049.
>> Warner: WHAT WOULD A
CHINESE-LED GLOBAL ORDER LOOK
LIKE THAT IS DETRIMENTAL TO U.S.
INTERESTS.
>> THE CHINESE CONCEPT OF A NEW
GLOBAL ORDER, THEY SAY IN VERY
PLEASING LANGUAGE, WILL BE FAIR.
THE SOUTH AND THE POOR COUNTRIES
OF THE WORLD.
THERE WILL BE NO PRESSURE
ANYMORE AGAINST DICTATORS.
THE ISSUES OF A GLOBAL NATURE,
LIKE CLIMATE CHANGE, POLLUTION
IN GENERAL, THESE MATTERS WILL
BE HANDLED BY CONSENSUS, NOT BY
PRESSURE GROUPS FROM WHAT THEY
PERCEIVE AS, YOU KNOW, UNUSUAL
CONCERN WITH AMERICAN VALUES.
THAT WILL ALL BE GONE.
THE KEY POINT ABOUT THE NEW
CHINESE-LED GLOBAL ORDER IS
AMERICA WILL NOT ABE GLOBAL
LEADER.
THE REMOVAL OF THE UNITED
STATES, AS WHAT THEY CALL THE
HEDGE MON, IS THE MOST IMPORTANT
THING.
SO THE NEW ORDER ITSELF IS JUST
GOG HAVE NO AMERICAN LEADERSHIP.
THAT'S THE FUNDAMENTAL POINT.
>> Warner: THERE IS A COUNTER
VIEW WHICH IS THE U.S. AND CHINA
ARE NOW THE WORLD'S TWO BIGGEST
ECONOMIES, AND IF WE ENTER INTO
A PERIOD OF CONFLICT WITH THEM,
WE DO SO AT OUR OWN PERIL.
>> IT'S TRUE.
WE WANT TO COOPERATE WITH CHINA,
BUT WHAT I'M ARGUING IS A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT.
I'M SAYING WE NEED TO BE SHAPING
CHINA AT THE SAME TIME AS
THEY'RE SHAPING US.
THEY HAVE ENORMOUS PLNS IN OUR
POLITICAL SYSTEM, WITH OUR
BUSINESSMEN.
THERE'S NO REASON WE CAN'T TRY
TO HAVE THE SAME KIND OF
INFLUENCE IN BEIJING.
>> Warner: SO IF THE UNITED
STATES WANTS TO FORESTALL THIS,
BEING REPLACED AS THE GLOBAL
SPRP, WHAT DOES IT MOST NEED TO
DO?
>> WE NEED TO STRENGTHEN-- WE
HAVE TO WAKE UP THAT THE CHINESE
ARE NOT POURING BACKWARD AND
IT'S TIME TO SHAPE THEM.
SECONDLY, WE ARE FALLING BEHIND
IN ALMOST ALL THE
COMPETITIVENESS INDICATORS THERE
ARE.
WE'VE GOT TO GET OUR OWN HOUSE
IN ORDER FIRST, OR THE CHINESE
ARE GOING TO WIN THE MARATHON BY
DEFAULT.
>> Warner: MICHAEL PILLSBURY,
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AS WE REPORTED LAST
NIGHT, THE NATION IS IN THE
MIDST OF DRAMATIC DEMOGRAPHIC
CHANGE.
ONE KEY SHIFT: MANY AFRICAN-
AMERICANS ARE LEAVING THE CITY
FOR THE SUBURBS, BUT SOME URBAN
COMMUNITIES ARE TRYING TO GET
THEM BACK.
JEFFREY BROWN RECENTLY TRAVELED
TO HOUSTON, TO SEE HOW ONE GROUP
THERE IS FIGHTING TO PROTECT ITS
COMMUNITY AND HISTORY THROUGH
ART.
>> Brown: ON A RECENT
SATURDAY, NEIGHBORS FROM
HOUSTON'S THIRD WARD CAME OUT TO
CELEBRATE THE LIFE OF THE FLOWER
MAN.
CLEVELAND TURNER, WHO DIED AT
AGE 78, WAS A BELOVED FOLK
ARTIST WHO TURNED FOUND OBJECTS
INTO ART AND MADE HIS OWN HOME A
KIND OF GALLERY.
RICK LOWE WAS ONE OF THE
SPEAKERS.
>> THE THING THAT MAKES IT NOT
SO SAD IS THAT THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
IS FULL OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
CREATIVELY EXPRESSING
THEMSELVESES IN DIFFERENT WAYS,
AND WE SEE THEM.
THEY WALK THROUGH OUR DOORS ALL
THE TIME.
>> Reporter: "THE DOORS" ARE
THOSE OF PROJECT ROW HOUSES, AN
EFFORT TO REJUVENATE AND
ENERGIZE A NEIGHBORHOOD AND ITS
PEOPLE THROUGH ART, ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, AND SOCIAL
SERVICES.
LAST YEAR, LOWE, WHO RAISES
FUNDING FROM FOUNDATIONS,
CORPORATIONS, AND INDIVIDUALS,
WAS RECOGNIZED FOR HIS EFFORTS
WITH THE McARTHUR FELLOWSHIP,
THE SO-CALLED GENIUS GRANT.
LOWE TOLD ME IT BEGAN IN THE
1990s WHEN HE WAS WORKING AS A
TRADITIONAL PAINTER AND
SCULPTOR.
>> I HAD A GROUP OF HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENTS AT MY STIEWD JOE AND
THIS STUDENT CAME TO ME AND
SAID, "THAT'S NOT WHAT WE NEED.
IF YOU'RE AN ARTIST, WHY CAN'T
YOU CREATE A SOLUTION."
>> THE THIRD WARD IS A MIXED
INCOME, DREDOMINANTLY AFRICAN
AMERICAN ERA, DATING BACK TO THE
CIVIL WAR.
IT IS WHERE THE CITY'S FIRST
SIT-IN PROTEST TOOK PLACE BY THE
CIVIL RIGHTS ERA, BUT BY THE
EARLY 1990s, IT WAS RIDDLED
WITH ABANDONED HOMES, CRIME, AND
DRUGS.
LOWE, THEN IN HIS EARLY 30s,
JOINED WITH FELLOW ARTISTS TO
BUY AND RENOVATE 22 OF THESE
SHOTGUN-STYLE HOMES,
ORIGINALLY BUILT IN THE 1930s.
HE BASED THE WORK, NOW HIS ART
WORK, ON THE IDEAS OF GERMAN
ARTIST JOSEPH BOYSE.
>> HE COINED THE TERM "SOCIAL
SCULPTURE."
HE DEFINED IT AS THE WAY WE
SHAPE AND MOLD THE WORLD AROUND
US.
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT GOT ME
INSPIRED TO THINK OF THESE
SHOTGUN HOUSES BEING THE BASIS
OR THE FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL
SCULPTURE.
>> Brown: SOME OF THE HOUSES
WERE USE FORWARD ART ITSELF AS
WORK SPACES AND FOR EXHIBITIONS.
THEY STILL ARE.
AND DURING OUR VISIT, WE SAW
WORK BY ESTABLISHED ARTISTS,
INCLUDING JULIA BROWN, WHO HAD
CREATED A VIDEO SHOWING FROM
DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES THE LIFE
OF A SINGLE MOTHER AND HER
CHILDREN.
>> I THINK IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY
TO JUST GET AN INTIMATE LOOK AT
WHAT SOMEONE'S LIFE IS LOOK.
THE SPACE YOU'RE LOOK AT IS
MATERIALLY ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THIS WALL.
>> Reporter: THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE WALL, IN HOMES, ALSO PART OF
PROJECT ROW HOUSES, WHERE
ANOTHER SIDE OF THE WORK GOES
ON, PROVIDING SHELTER TO SINGLE
MOTHERS AND CHILDREN.
SOME OF THE HOUSES ARE FOR
TEMPORARY USE, HELPING YOUNG
WOMEN GET ON THEIR FEET.
OTHERS, DESIGNED BY THE RICE
UNIVERSITY BUILDING WORKSHOP,
WORKING WITH RICK LOWE, OFFER
MORE PERMANENT SUBSITIZED
HOUSING.
>> OH, WOW!
YOU TURNED IT INTO A BIRD!
>> Brown: THAT'S WHERE WE MET
MIKHAIL AWHO TOLD US WERE A
DIFFICULT CHOOID HOOD HAVING TO
WORK TWO JOBS AND LEAVE SCHOOL.
>> I WAS ATTRACTED TO THE
PROGRAM BECAUSE IT FOCUSED ON
BUDGETING.
FOCUSED ON PARENTING SKILLS.
IT WASN'T JUST A PLACE TO SAY.
IT WOULD ALSODEVE LOP ME TO
BECOME A BETTER MOTHER SP A
BETTER THAN IMPORTANT.
>> Brown: SHE HAS GRADUATED
FROM COLLEGE, PUBLISHED A BOOK
OF POETRY, NOW WORKS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON, AND HAS
AN ENTHUSIASM THAT SEEMS
BOUNDLESS.
>> PEOPLE ALWAYS-- WHEN I TELL
PEOPLE I LIVE IN THIRD WORD,
THEY SAY, "IT'S DANGEROUS THERE.
I DON'T WANT TO DRIVE THERE."
>> Brown: EVEN NOW THEY SAY
THAT TO YOU?
>> I SAY, NO, I LIVE IN AN
ARTIST COMMUNITY.
THEY'RE LIKE, "OKAY, I WANT TO
COME SEE IT.
IT."
>> I WAS WORKING IN ABJECT
POVERTY MAKING ABOUT $700 A
MONTH FOR ME AND MY SON.
>> Brown: PERHAPS THE
PROGRAM'S BIGGEST SUCCESS STORY
IS THE WOMAN WHO RUNS IT.
>> AND I CAME INTO THIS
ORGANIZATION, AND THIS
ORGANIZATION SET THE HIGHEST,
GRANDEST DREAM FOR YOURSELF AND
WE WILL SUPPORT YOU.
BY '99 I GRADUATED FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON AND WENT
ON TO PENN STATE TO GET A
Ph.D.
>> Brown: RICHARDS TAUGHT SOC
ALLEGE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
PITTSBURGH BUT DECIDED SHE
WANTED TO COME BACK AND MENTOR
YOUNG WOMEN HERE.
>> WE DO MORE THAN GIVE HOUSING.
WE GIVE A COMMUNITY TO YOUNG
MOTHERS.
OUR CONCEPT IS BELIEVING IN
INVESTING IN YOUNG MOTHERS AND
THEIR ILDRCHEN IS AN INVESTMENT
IN THE FUTURE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WHAT I BELIEVE IS ART AND
CREATIVITY HAS THE POTENTIAL TO
TRANSFORM THE LIVES OF
INDIVIDUALS AND LIVES OF A
COMMUNITY.
>> Brown: NOW THERE'S A NEW
FOCUS-- COMX DEVELOPMENT.
PROJECT ROW HOUSES HAS CREATED A
BUSINESS INCUBATOR PROVIDING
SPACE AND SUPPORT, FOR EXAMPLE,
FOR A FOOD CO-OP, TO ADDRESS THE
LACK OF FRESK FRUITS AND
VEGETABLES IN THE RADIO.
>> ARE YOU TUNED IN.
>> Brown: AND FOR A
ROUND-THE-CLOCK LIVE WEB RADIO
STATION, ALL REAL RADIO, IN ONE
OF ITS ROW HOUSES.
ITS FOUNDER, A LONGTIME HOUSTON
D.J, WHO GOES BY THE NAME ZINN,
SAYS THIS IS ANOTH WAERY TO
POWER AND UNITE THOSE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY.
>> RADIO CAN GIVE THEM THAT
VOICE.
RADIO CAN GIVE THE PERSON WHO
SUBSEQUENT DNT HAVE THAT
SPOTLIGHT THE OPPORTUNITY TO BE
SPOTLIGHTED.
SO I THINK IT OFFERS THE
COMMUNITY A VOICE, A VISION, AN
OPPORTUNITY, YOU KNOW, FROM
BUSINESS TO ART TO, YOU KNOW,
SOCIAL ACTIVISM.
I THINK IT FITS IN ALL OF THOSE
.ATEGORIES
>> Brown: SO MANY CRKZ INDEED,
FOR PROJECT ROW HOUSES.
FROM SOCIAL SERVICES TO
LOW-INCOME HOUSING TO BUSINESS
DEVELOPMENT, THE OBVIOUS
QUESTION FOR ARTIST RICK LOWE,
WHY IS THIS ART?
>> WHY IT'S ART BECAUSE THERE'S
A SYMBOLIC VALUE THAT IS EVIDENT
IN THIS PROJECT THAT IS BEYOND
NORMAL SOCIAL SERVICE PROJECTS
OR REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND SO
ON AND SO FORTH.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, IT COMES IN
THE SAME SHAPE BUT IT'S
COMPLETELY DEPARTS WHEN YOU
START TALKING ABOUT ITS
INTENTION.
>> Brown: AND THE INTENTION OF
AN ARTIST?
>> IT'S A LOOK AT WHAT IT MEANS
TO BE IN A HOUSE, YOU KNOW, AND
TO CREATE SOMETHING THAT IS
SYMBOLIC TO GET PEOPLE TO TALK
ABOUT.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO BE IN A
HOUSE?
WHAT IS THE VALUE OF A HOUSE?
>> CALL IT WHAT YOU WILL.
MANY OTHER CITIES ARE NOW
CALLING RICK LOWE TO COME SEE
WHAT HE MIGHT DO WITH THEM.
MEANWHILE, HERE IN THE THIRD
WARD, THERE'S STILL PLENTY OF
WORK TO DO.
OLD HOUSES SIT ABANDONED ON SOME
STREETS.
THERE'S ALSO NEW BUILDING
EVERYWHERE, INCLUDING A $33
MILLION RENOVATION PROJECT AT
NEARBY EMANCIPATION PARK.
IT'S A SIGN OF GENTRIFICATION,
AS CONDOS ARE BUILT AND RENT AND
PROPERTY TAXES RISE.
LOWE'S BIGGEST FEAR NOW IS THAT
THE CHARACTER OF THIS PLACE WILL
CHANGE AND LONGTIME RESIDENTS
WILL BE PUSHED OUT.
>> AS WE EMBRACE THE AWARENESS
OF HISTORIC VALUE OF THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD, TING GIVES US SOME
GROUND TO CONTINUE TO STAY IN
THIS DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
>> Brown: THERE WAS  RAZING OF R
MAN'S HOME.
BUT RICK LOWE'S ORGANIZATION
OWNS THIS PLOT AS WELL, AND HE
TOLD US IT WILL BE PUT TO GOOD
USE TO PRESERVE THE LEGACY OF
THE FOLK ARTIST AND HIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
REPORTING FROM HOUSTON'S THIRD
WARD, I'M JEFFREY BROWN FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES CHARGED TWO
MEN IN NEW YORK WITH PLANNING TO
JOIN ISLAMIC STATE FORCES IN
SYRIA.
THEY SAID A THIRD MAN, IN
FLORIDA, HELPED FINANCE THE
EFFORT.
INVESTIGATORS IN PASCO,
WASHINGTON REPORTED THAT POLICE
FIRED 17 TIMES WHEN THEY KILLED
A MEXICAN FARM WORKER EARLIER
THIS MONTH.
THE INCIDENT HAS SPARKED
PROTESTS.
THE SENATE CLEARED THE WAY FOR A
VOTE FRIDAY ON FUNDING THE
HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT,
BUT SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
DECLINED TO SAY IF HE'LL BRING
IT TO A VOTE IN THE HOUSE.
AND, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU ACCUSED THE
U.S. AND OTHER WESTERN POWERS OF
GIVING UP ON STOPPING IRAN FROM
BUILDING NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, THINK
SHARK, AND IF YOU'RE LIKE ME,
YOU START HEARING THE THEME FROM
"JAWS."
BUT SOME SAY THE PREDATORS OF
THE SEA ARE MISUNDERSTOOD.
THAT'S PART OF THE REASON
BIOLOGIST AND DIVER, OCEAN
RAMSEY, LEADS CAGELESS "SWIMMING
WITH SHARKS" EXPEDITIONS.
SEE A PHOTO GALLERY OF A RECENT
ADVENTURE AND LEARN WHAT MAKES
THESE ANIMALS SO IMPORTANT TO
THE ECOSYSTEM.
PLUS, ONE ARTIST PAINTS THE LAST
MEALS OF INMATES ON DEATH ROW
ONTO PORCELAIN PLATES.
FIND BOTH OF THOSE STORIES ON
OUR WEB SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR,
CELEBRATING THE TRIUMPH OVER
SLAVERY THROUGH THE PAINTING OF
HALE WOODRUFF.
>> IN 1938, TALLADEGA COLLEGE
ASKED WOODRUFF TO COMMEMORATE
THE STORIES OF THE AMISTAD, AND
OF THE FOUNDING OF THE COLLEGE,
IN A SERIES OF MURALS.
>> AND TO HAVE FOR ONCE A
TRIUMPHANT STORY WHERE THE
UNDERDOG, WHO IS - UNDERDOGS WHO
ARE BLACK MEN, ARE ABLE TO TAKE
CONTROL OF THEIR LIVES AND
ACTUALLY, UM, UH SET THEIR OWN
DESTINY WAS SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE FOUND THRILLING.
AND I THINK SOME OTHER PEOPLE
FOUND QUITE THREATENING.
>> Ifill: THAT'S TOMORROW ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
AND THAT'S THE PROGRAM FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.